It's always fun, like it's fun to go to
a new site and just give it like some
kind of audit, like a very high level
view of like, what's going on with it,
I remember this one time as an anecdote,
I was doing an interview.
I was interviewing for a job and
one of the questions was what
can slow down a website [LAUGH]
I feel like I just ranted for
like 45 minutes I was like kind of
disappointed when the interview was over.
I was like I still have more things, so
it's kind of wanted to talk through some
of the things that I've seen very
commonly slow down websites, and
I always kind of group it into
like back end and front end stuff.
Obviously, those groups they don't really
hold true today as things have gotten very
complicated [LAUGH] when you
have server less sites or
you have a front end service team and
then a back end service team, but
I really mean you have the user's
computer and then you have where
your code is stored at your data center
and kinda one or the other side.
So when you think about back end
things that can slow down websites,
Database calls can happen a lot like
maybe the database is an index property.
I know Brian Holt just did like a
huge course on Frontend Masters
on introduction to databases.
Sure it covers a bunch of great stuff
on like being efficient queries, but
I've seen it often where you
have a lightning fast server but
a really slow my SQL database and that's
just going to slow down the request.
The server can be slow Or
there can be not enough servers,
it's just overwhelmed and
it's having a hard time responding.
The network can be bad, this can kinda
both into front end or back end, so
either some calls between services
can be too slow network connection or
from the client to the server can be slow.
And those are really interesting to fix
because there's lots of different things
you can do, you can put your static
assets out on a CDN can be great.
There's also all sorts of cool serverless
technologies that let you host
your code in multiple places,
basically like a CDN for dynamic stuff.
A lot of bigger companies will have data
centers located strategically all over
the world, or they'll buy like
a small presence like a pop or
something like that in certain
areas to make connections faster.
There's a lot of interesting
stuff you can do there, and
then the last thing which you talked
about a little bit is compression.
I wanted to give like a quick
shout out to Gzip and
Brotli here because they also kind
of belongs in the network section.
But there's two compression
formats that browsers actually
understand which are Gzip and Brotli.
Which means that if you use
them to compress your code and
send that compressed code over the wire.
The browser doesn't need any extensions or
anything special to be able to
uncompressed your code and
read it back out, which is great.
So it's Think of it as like a zip
format that all browsers understand,
which means that you should be probably
compressing everything that you use,
so for example, if you have like a node
app, let's say use Express node or
whatever, then you would just wanna look
for like an express node, compress,
plugin, right, some kind of middleware.
They all have these, whether it's like
a Java app or a Ruby app or whatever,
you just want something
that's gonna Gzip all of
your requests that get sent over and
all your static assets as well.
So compression is great, on the front end,
we see a lot of things these days,
one of the things I see most often
are really large JavaScript bundle sizes.
That's probably 90% of
the cases that I diagnose,
come down to that where it's like people
say like, can you try to stick under like
2, 3, 400 kilobytes of JavaScript and
then you go look at some of these sites,
and you're looking at like 5,
6, 7 megabytes of JavaScript.
And it's just, it's so easy, I mean, it's
so easy to get set up, you need a cool
thing and you go to NPM and you find
the cool thing and you NPM install it and
you just add it and like before
long you've got, just so much code.
This could be its whole own class, so
I'm not gonna go too deep into it, but
reducing the dependencies
you have is great.
Making sure that you're your
bundler is optimized is great and
another thing is taking advantage
of all the modern things.
I said Webpack is very flexible,
you can say, hey, I need this, but
I don't need it on page load, so
just download it asynchronously.
There's lots of really cool things you can
do with bundlers to make the site faster,
too many files we kinda
covered this already.
I always like doing audits at the end
even though audit is the easiest
on a technical level.
It also kinda nicely wraps up all the
stuff that we've been learning as you're
like, yeah, we kind of covered that, so
we covered in the networking section
that you can only do 6
synchronous requests at a time.
So if you have Like 700 images
that need to come down,
it's just gonna be queuing installed for
a really long time.
Again, with images, just like JavaScript,
you can make a lot of them asynchronous
if you don't need it for the actual page
load, like if it's just presentational or
if it's below the fold, like down,
scroll lower, just make them asynchronous.
It can be a huge savings,
Images also are tricky like,
they can be uncompressed
they can be too big.
So I we see this a lot where in your CSS
you'll have like image style, width 500,
height 500 great, and then you hover
over the image, and it'll be like,
well, the natural size of this
image is like 2600 by 1400.
And it's like, well, why are you sending
this like giant image over the network if
you're only going to render
it in a very small way.
The other thing is that images have all of
this metadata, so if you open as someone
who works for one of the largest Companies
that puts that metadata [LAUGH] there.
When you open something and like Photoshop
or whatever, it's gonna save all this
really, really handy stuff so that when
you open it again, you know has all this
history and what file or what program
it was last edited with all this stuff.
It's really good for keeping local files
but it's really bad for the web, so
if you use something like image optimizer,
or any number of cloud services
do the same thing they'll like
trim all this metadata off.
One, it can be a security issue,
we often read about hacks where like Exif,
data was left on images and people
could find where they were posted from.
Number two its file sizes, you don't need
all that metadata just makes the image
bigger, so would they call that
as lossless image compression.
That's the thing to look into, which is
making the image smaller without losing
any quality,
that's basically what it means.
So images to large images on compressed,
unused JavaScript and
CSS, this one could be
another kind of workshop, so
Chrome dev tools can tell you unused code.
But the story is like never really that
simple, right, because you'll often have
CSS that's there to style a modal that
the user just hasn't clicked on yet.
So it's not really unused,
it just hasn't been used yet,
so I think the better thing to do
is to use the bundle async stuff.
So like use your Webpack,
like dynamic imports or
whatever bundler you're using to be like,
hey, my that modal the JavaScript and
the accompanying CSS does not
need to come on page load.
It can come later, is a good way to do it,
CSS in the document body,
that's another one is where you
put stuff will trigger when, so
if you put stuff in the head
versus the body the CSS and
the body will be like an asynchronous,
like a lower priority loads,
then it'll cause everything to
kind of warp in afterwards.
But then a lot of JavaScript libraries,
like analytics ones always want you to put
that in the head,
which will then block a lot of the thing.
So you are like waiting on Google
analytics before your page loads, so
really tricky and
last one, browser caching.
So setting cache headers on your server,
and
then respecting them in the browser
is great, I actually over the break I
had seen some questions over E tags
which I think now is a good segue into.
So I mentioned E tags earlier is like
a standard, that people use for,
caching something until
it changes basically,
and so they're not necessarily for
free though.
So the E tag is a header that
your server will need to set, and
you can look it up on MDN,
but it's just E tag, and so
your server will send an E tag header
with a unique hash to like the file.
And then the client also
needs to do some work,
the client will need to with the fetch
request send an if non match header
itself and
this is all you can find this on MDN.
But basically the server will need to send
the unique hash, and then the client will
need to send only give me a new
file if it's not this hash and
and that's how they can kind of
communicate very quickly together.
So these things are a little confusing but
there, hugely important when you're,
working on a big site that has like
user uploaded images that can change but
they don't change very often.
So ideally, you would cache them all but
sometimes you need to purge that cache.